Refresh user documentation and correct grammar (#1976)
ansible/vscode-ansible: docs/README.md

code completion, and AI-assisted suggestions via Ansible Lightspeed. With
support for multi-root workspaces, containerized execution environments, and
extensive configuration options, the extension enhances productivity and ensures
consistent code quality for both individual and team-based projects. This
extension adds language support for Ansible in
[Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.ansible)
and [OpenVSX](https://open-vsx.org/extension/redhat/ansible) by leveraging the
[ansible-language-server](als/README.md).

## **Installation Requirements**

Before you begin, make sure your system has:

- Ansible 2.9 or newer
- Ansible Lint, unless linter support is disabled

> **Note:** On Windows, use with the Remote - WSL or Remote - Containers
> extensions for optimal compatibility.

## **Getting Started**

### Welcome Page

The extension provides a comprehensive Welcome Page that serves as a dashboard
for Ansible development tools. You can access it by:

- Opening the Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P or Cmd+Shift+P)
- Typing "Open Ansible Development Tools menu" and selecting it

>   ![Walkthrough](images/walkthrough.gif){ width=750 height=750 }

Reviewer: The `{ width=750 height=750 }` sizing works in MkDocs but still shows the formatting element in the README itself.

Reviewer 2: <img width="1278" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fcd8ddf2-e30e-480f-b25f-bdd16fc2affa" />
  
  
  but in localhost it coming correctly

  **OR**

- Click on Getting Started

  - Walkthroughs will appear on the right-hand side

  ![Getting Started](images/getting_started.gif){ width=750 height=750 }

The Welcome Page includes:

- Quick access to create new playbooks, collections, and projects
- System readiness status showing your Ansible environment configuration
- Links to documentation and learning resources
- Access to interactive walkthroughs

### Interactive Walkthroughs

The extension includes guided walkthroughs to help you get started with Ansible
development:

#### Create an Ansible environment

- Create an Ansible playbook
- Configure the tag in the status bar

> - Install the Ansible environment package

Reviewer: Instead of having bullet points of the walkthroughs, can this be a 1-2 sentence summary of the walkthrough? Same for the other walkthroughs. This will help reduce docs overhead.

#### Start automating with your first Ansible playbook

- Enable Ansible Lightspeed
- Create an Ansible playbook project
- Create an Ansible playbook
- Save your playbook to a playbook project
- Learn more about playbooks

#### Discover Ansible Development Tools

- Learn about tools for scaffolding Ansible content
- Explore testing tools for Ansible
- Understand deployment options
- Get guidance on next steps

### Quick Links

The Quick Links panel provides easy access to common Ansible tasks and is
available in the Ansible sidebar view. It includes:

#### Launch Section

This section provides quick access to:

- Getting Started: Opens the Ansible Development Tools welcome page
- Ansible code bot: Documentation for the AI-powered code assistant
- Documentation: Links to Ansible Development Tools documentation

> - Settings: Quick access to extension settings quickLinksView.ts:53-82

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Settings: Quick access to extension settings
```

#### Initialize Section

This section helps you create new Ansible projects:

- Collection project: Create a new Ansible collection
- Execution environment project: Set up a new execution environment
- Playbook project: Create a new Ansible playbook project

>   quickLinksView.ts:83-106

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Use the command "Ansible Lightspeed: Playbook generation "
- Describe what you want the playbook to do
- Review and customize the generated playbook

### Playbook Project

- Use the command "Ansible: Create New Playbook Project"
- Enter the namespace and collection name
- Specify the destination directory

A complete project structure will be created with playbooks, inventory, and
configuration files

## **Creating Execution Environments**

You can create execution environment configurations for containerized Ansible
environments:

1. Click "Execution environment project" in the Quick Links panel

2. Configure:

   - Base image
   - Collections to include
   - System packages
   - Python packages

3. Click "Create" to generate the execution environment file

## **Adding Resources to Projects**

You can add various resources to existing Ansible projects:

1. **Plugins**: Add modules, lookup plugins, filter plugins, etc. to collections
2. **Roles**: Create role structures within collections
3. **Devcontainers**: Add development container configurations
4. **Devfiles**: Create devfiles for consistent development environments

## **Language association to yaml files**

> The extension works when a document is assigned the ansible language. Files are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extension works when a document is assigned the Ansible language. Files are
```

# Ansible VS Code Extension

> The Ansible Extension for Visual Studio Code streamlines Ansible development by
> providing an integrated, feature-rich environment tailored for automation
> workflows. It offers features such as syntax highlighting, linting, intelligent
> code completion, and AI-assisted suggestions via Ansible Lightspeed. With
> support for multi-root workspaces, containerized execution environments, and
> extensive configuration options, the extension enhances productivity and ensures
> consistent code quality for both individual and team-based projects. This
> extension adds language support for Ansible in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ansible Extension for Visual Studio Code streamlines Ansible development by
providing an integrated, feature-rich environment tailored for automation
workflows. It offers features such as syntax highlighting, linting, intelligent
code completion, and AI-assisted suggestions via Ansible Lightspeed. 

With support for multi-root workspaces, containerized execution environments, and
extensive configuration options, the extension enhances productivity and ensures
consistent code quality for both individual and team-based projects. This
extension adds language support for Ansible in
```

- Click "Collection project" in the Quick Links panel
- Enter the namespace and collection name
- Specify the destination directory
- Click "Create"

### Creating Playbooks

The extension offers multiple ways to create playbooks:

### Empty Playbook

- Use the command "Ansible: Create an empty Ansible playbook"
- Edit the playbook manually

### AI-Generated Playbook (with Ansible Lightspeed)

- Use the command "Ansible Lightspeed: Playbook generation "
- Describe what you want the playbook to do
- Review and customize the generated playbook

### Playbook Project

- Use the command "Ansible: Create New Playbook Project"
- Enter the namespace and collection name
- Specify the destination directory

A complete project structure will be created with playbooks, inventory, and
configuration files

### Creating Execution Environments

You can create execution environment configurations for containerized Ansible
environments:

1. Click "Execution environment project" in the Quick Links panel

2. Configure: Base image, Collections to include, System packages, Python
   packages

3. Click "Create" to generate the execution environment file

### Creating Devcontainer Configurations

> The extension supports Devcontainers to provide isolated, consistent Ansible
> development environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension supports generating dev containers to provide isolated, consistent Ansible
development environments in VS Code. The [Microsoft Dev Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers) is required for this feature.  

See the [Ansible Development Tools (ADT)- Execution Environment documentation](https://ansible.readthedocs.io/projects/dev-tools/container/) for more information on what is included in the generated dev container. 
```

# Ansible VS Code Extension

> The Ansible Extension for Visual Studio Code streamlines Ansible development by

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Ansible extension for Visual Studio Code streamlines Ansible development by
```

providing an integrated, feature-rich environment tailored for automation
workflows. It offers features such as syntax highlighting, linting, intelligent
code completion, and AI-assisted suggestions via Ansible Lightspeed.

With support for multi-root workspaces, containerized execution environments,
and extensive configuration options, the extension enhances productivity and
ensures consistent code quality for both individual and team-based projects.
This extension adds language support for Ansible in
[Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.ansible)

> and [OpenVSX](https://open-vsx.org/extension/redhat/ansible) by leveraging the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and [OpenVSX](https://open-vsx.org/extension/redhat/ansible) by using the
```

[ansible-language-server](als/README.md).

## Installation Requirements

Before you begin, make sure your system has:

> - Ansible 2.9 or newer

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The [`ansible-dev-tools`](https://github.com/ansible/ansible-dev-tools) python package
```

> - Ansible Lint, unless linter support is disabled

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A supported version of [`ansible-core`](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/reference_appendices/release_and_maintenance.html)
- Optionally, a `devcontainer.yaml` file to develop in a devcontainer eliminating the need to install and manage python versions and packages.
```

> Note: On Windows, use with the Remote - WSL or Remote - Containers extensions
> for optimal compatibility.

## Activating Red Hat Ansible extension manually

It is recommended to open a folder containing Ansible files with a VS Code
workspace.

![Linter support](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/ansible/vscode-ansible/images/activate-extension.gif)

Note:

> - For Ansible files open in an editor window ensure the language mode is set to

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Open an Ansible file in an editor window and ensure the language mode is set to
```

  `Ansible` (bottom right of VS Code window).

> - The runtime status of extension should be in activate state. It can be

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The runtime status of the extension must be in activate state.
```

>   verified in the `Extension` window `Runtime Status` tab for `Ansible`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Verify this in the `Extension` window `Runtime Status` tab for the `Ansible`
```

  extension.

## Getting Started

### Welcome Page

The extension provides a comprehensive Welcome Page that serves as a dashboard

> for Ansible development tools. You can access it by:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
for Ansible development tools. Access it as follows:
```

> - Opening the Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P or Cmd+Shift+P)
> - Typing "Open Ansible Development Tools menu" and selecting it

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Open the Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P or Cmd+Shift+P)
- Type "Open Ansible Development Tools menu" and selecting it
```

  ![Walkthrough](images/walkthrough.webp){ width=750 height=750 }

  **OR**

> - From the Quick Links panel, click on **Getting Started**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- From the Quick Links panel, click **Getting Started**.
```

  - The walkthroughs will appear on the right-hand side.

  ![Getting Started](images/getting_started.webp){ width=750 height=750 }

### Interactive Walkthroughs

The extension offers guided walkthroughs to help you quickly get started with
Ansible development using step-by-step instructions.

#### Create an Ansible Environment

Learn how to create a new Ansible playbook, configure the environment using the
status bar, and install the necessary Ansible packages to get set up.

#### Start Automating with Your First Ansible Playbook

This walkthrough guides you through enabling Ansible Lightspeed, creating a
playbook project, writing your first playbook, and saving it within the project
structure.

#### Discover Ansible Development Tools

Explore the full range of Ansible development tools available in the extension,
including scaffolding content, testing, and deployment guidance for your
automation journey.

### Quick Links

The Quick Links panel provides easy access to common Ansible tasks and is

> available in the Ansible sidebar view. It includes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
available in the Ansible sidebar view. It can be accessed by clicking on the Ansible extension icon and includes:
```

- dev container: Create a dev container configuration
- Devfile: Create a devfile for development environments
- Execution environment template: Create an execution environment file
- Role: Add a role to an existing collection
- Playbook: Generate a playbook with Ansible Lightspeed

## Creating dev container Configurations

This extension supports generating dev containers to provide isolated,
consistent Ansible development environments in VS Code. The
[Microsoft Dev Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)
is required for this feature. See the
[Ansible Development Tools (ADT)- Execution Environment documentation](https://ansible.readthedocs.io/projects/dev-tools/container/)
for more information on what is included in the generated dev container.

### Create a dev container

Quick Links Panel: Go to Ansible sidebar → click dev container

Command Palette: Ctrl+Shift+P → search "Ansible: Create a dev container"

### Configuration Options

Choose image:

- Upstream: ghcr.io/ansible/community-ansible-dev-tools:latest

- Downstream: registry.redhat.io/.../ansible-dev-tools-rhel8:latest

> Set destination and overwrite options via webview, and click "Create".

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Set destination and overwrite options in the webview, and click "Create".
```

}
```

## **With file inspection**

- Files are inspected for top-level playbook keywords like hosts and
  import_playbook
- Modelines support: add # code: language=ansible at the top of a file to force
  language recognition

> ### File inspection for ansible keywords

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### File inspection for Ansible keywords
```

  verified in the `Extension` window `Runtime Status` tab for `Ansible`
  extension.

> ## **Features**

Reviewer: We can remove the features section completely, since this information is duplicated under the Ansible Language Server section. Though before removal, we should make sure the information is up to date with this section. 

Instead of having this here, there could be a note in one of the docs pages about ALS, that links to that doc section.

### Ansible Lightspeed with watsonx Code Assistant

The extension integrates with Ansible Lightspeed with watsonx Code Assistant to
provide AI-powered features.

## **AI-powered Suggestions**

Lightspeed provides inline code suggestions as you type:

- Press Ctrl+. to trigger suggestions
- Press Tab to accept a suggestion
- Press Escape to hide a suggestion

## **Playbook Generation**

You can generate complete playbooks from natural language descriptions:

- Use the command "Ansible: Create a playbook with Ansible Lightspeed"
- Describe what you want the playbook to do

> - Review and customize the generated playbook

Reviewer: This should be its own page.

> ## **Configuration**

Reviewer: This looks like it's missing some sections, and that some settings are under different sections than in the extension. If we break this Configuration section into its own page, we can list out everything without crowding the README itself. I'll make a larger recommendation for this below.

which you can learn more about at

> <https://github.com/redhat-developer/vscode-redhat-telemetry#how-to-disable-telemetry-reporting>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<https://github.com/redhat-developer/vscode-redhat-telemetry#how-to-disable-telemetry-reporting>.
```

- Only Jinja _expressions_ inside Ansible YAML files are supported. In order to

>   have syntax highlighting of Jinja template files, you'll need to install other

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  have syntax highlighting of Jinja template files, you'll need to install an additional
```

Reviewer 3: Can we add a link to a recommended one?

  extension.
- Full support for Jinja blocks (e.g., {% for %}, {% if %}) within Ansible YAML
  files, such as advanced syntax highlighting or autocompletion specific to

>   block structures, is not yet implemented. Basic YAML highlighting will apply

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  block structures, is not yet implemented. Basic YAML highlighting applies
```
